TELCODOCS-2271 Document enhanced logging (#96669)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-configuring-enhanced-log-filtering-for-linuxptp.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ptp/configuring-ptp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cnf-configuring-enhanced-log-reduction-for-linuxptp_{context}"]
= Configuring enhanced PTP log reduction

> Basic log reduction effectively filters out frequent logs, however if you want a periodic summary of those filtered logs use the enhanced log reduction feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic log reduction effectively filters out frequent logs. However, if you want a periodic summary of the filtered logs, use the enhanced log reduction feature.
```

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

* Install the PTP Operator.

.Procedure

> . Edit the `PtpConfig` CR:

Reviewer: First instance:
```suggestion
. Edit the `PtpConfig` custom resource (CR):
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit PtpConfig -n openshift-ptp
----

> . In `spec.profile`, add the `ptpSettings.logReduce` specification and set the value to `enhanced`:

Reviewer: Clarify what `spec.profile` is:
```suggestion
. Add the `ptpSettings.logReduce` specification in the `spec.profile` section, and set the value to `enhanced`:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ptp.openshift.io/v1
kind: PtpConfig
metadata:
  name: <ptp_config_name>
  namespace: openshift-ptp
...
spec:
  profile:
  - name: "profile1"
...
    ptpSettings:
      logReduce: "enhanced"
----

> . Optional: Configure the interval for summary logs and a threshold in nanoseconds for the master offset logs. For example to set the interval to 60 seconds and the threshold to 100 nanoseconds, edit the `spec.profile`, add the `ptpSettings.logReduce` specification and set the value to `enhanced`

Reviewer: Is there any way to avoid saying "master" in this case? Also, the value is not just `enhanced` so I'd expand it as it is in the YAML.
```suggestion
. Optional: Configure the interval for summary logs and a threshold in nanoseconds for the master offset logs. For example, to set the interval to 60 seconds and the threshold to 100 nanoseconds, add the `ptpSettings.logReduce` specification in the `spec.profile` section and set the value to `enhanced 60s 100`
```

+
[source,yaml]
----

>    apiVersion: ptp.openshift.io/v1

Reviewer: I think there are some extra spaces here:
```suggestion
apiVersion: ptp.openshift.io/v1
```

kind: PtpConfig
metadata:
  name: <ptp_config_name>
  namespace: openshift-ptp
spec:
  profile:
  - name: "profile1"
    ptpSettings:
      logReduce: "enhanced 60s 100" <1>
----
+

> <1> The `linuxptp-daemon` is configured to generate summary logs every 60 seconds (a default interval of 30 seconds applies if no value is specified). Additionally, a threshold of 100 nanoseconds for master offset logs is set. This means the daemon only produces summary logs at the specified interval, but if your clock's offset from the master exceeds plus or minus 100 nanoseconds, that specific log entry is recorded. You can set the interval independently of the threshold; for example, setting it to enhanced 60s configures a 60-second interval without a master offset threshold.   

Reviewer: Avoid using parentheses. Same question about master, can you use something else? I'm suggesting some changes to the longer and harder-to-understand sentences but please check if they're technically correct and feel free to rephrase as needed.
```suggestion
<1> By default, the `linuxptp-daemon` is configured to generate summary logs every 30 seconds if no value is specified. In the example configuration, the daemon generates summary logs every 60 seconds and a threshold of 100 nanoseconds for the master offset logs is set. This means the daemon only produces summary logs at the specified interval. However, if your clock's offset from the master exceeds plus or minus 100 nanoseconds, that specific log entry is recorded. You can set the interval independently of the threshold. For example, setting the value of the `logReduce` field to `enhanced 60s` configures a 60-second interval without a master offset threshold.
```

. Save and exit to apply the changes to the `PtpConfig` CR.

.Verification

> . Get the name of the `linuxptp-daemon` pod and corresponding node where the `PtpConfig` CR has been applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Get the name of the `linuxptp-daemon` pod and the corresponding node where the `PtpConfig` CR is applied:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n openshift-ptp -o wide
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE     IP            NODE
linuxptp-daemon-gmv2n           3/3     Running   0          1d17h   10.1.196.24   compute-0.example.com
linuxptp-daemon-lgm55           3/3     Running   0          1d17h   10.1.196.25   compute-1.example.com
ptp-operator-3r4dcvf7f4-zndk7   1/1     Running   0          1d7h    10.129.0.61   control-plane-1.example.com
----

. Verify that master offset messages are excluded from the logs by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ptp logs <linux_daemon_container> -c linuxptp-daemon-container | grep "master offset" <1>
----

> <1> <linux_daemon_container> is the name of the `linuxptp-daemon` pod, for example `linuxptp-daemon-gmv2n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> <linux_daemon_container> is the name of the `linuxptp-daemon` pod, for example, `linuxptp-daemon-gmv2n`.
```
